# Open-Positions

We currently have an **open inter-disciplinary PhD position** in the team in the framework of the i-Bio program.  
  
The **i-Bio initiative**, supported by the French Excellence initiative granted to Sorbonne University Alliance, aims at promoting interdisciplinary research projects at the interface between biology and other disciplines. In 2021, the competition-funded i-Bio PhD program will offer 4 fully funded three-year PhD grants among fifteen selected projects proposals. A PhD studentship is available in the MASSIV team (Analytical Genomics, LCQB, CNRS-UPMC), in collaboration with Sergei Grudinin's team at Inria (Grenoble). We are looking for a highly motivated PhD candidate with a solid background in computer science or applied mathematics, very good programming skills (C++ and Python) and deep knowledge in linear algebra. S/he should have some knowledge in biology and some familiarity with biological objects such as protein sequences and structures. Experience with -omics data (transcriptomics, proteomics) and some knowledge in evolution are a plus. Teamwork and communication skills are essential for the achievement of the project.  

**Project description**  
By generating multiple transcripts from the same gene, alternative splicing has the potential to greatly expand eukaryotic proteomes. In this doctoral project, we propose to leverage the growing body of available transcriptomics and proteomics data to generate new protein functional diversity. We will use the notion of evolutionary conservation to identify a set of alternative-splicing-induced sequence variations likely relevant to protein function. We will carefully cross this information with transcript expression and proteomics data. We will then map the identified sequence variations onto protein structures and interactions, at the level of protein domain families. We will build a probabilistic model that will learn « rules » from this curated resource to determine where and how to target a protein in order to modulate its function. We will represent the input data as graphs and will develop a suitable deep learning architecture (e.g., variational auto encoder). We will produce a knowledge base for alternative splicing and new methods for graph learning applied to proteins. The expected outcome will improve our understanding of protein functioning and help to guide protein design.

For more information, please visit:  
http://ibio.sorbonne-universite.fr/application-procedure/  
http://ibio.sorbonne-universite.fr/i-bio-projects-2021/
